[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
h
[Applause]
[Music]
a
welcome to Times TV TV a division of
times media and
broadcasting welcome to the nobs
spiritual book club's live streaming
interview series we're leading new
thought teachers speakers and authors
share the intimate stories behind the 10
best spiritual books that inspired them
the most on their spiritual journey from
well-known Classics to Hidden M you
might never have heard of the nobs
spiritual book club saves you time and
money by sharing reliable
recommendations from those who've walked
the path before you the nobs spiritual
book club the only nobs Guide to the
best spiritual books to inspire your own
journey of self-discovery here's your
host founder of the nobs spiritual book
club Sandy sedgbeer
hello and welcome joining me today to
share the 10 best spiritual books that
inspired him the most on his life
journey is award-winning teacher and
international speaker Christopher M bash
whose latest book LSD and the mind of
the universe is in my
opinion probably the most important book
of our time Chris bash is Professor
ameritus in the department of philosophy
and religious studies at Youngstown
State University where he taught for 33
years is he's a fellow at The Institute
of netic sciences and Advisory Board
member for grth transpersonal training
and the grth foundation and if you want
to know why I regard LSD and the mind of
the universe as the most important book
of this time stay tuned we'll find out
more about that later in the show
meantime Chris bash welcome to the show
thank you Sandy it's a pleasure to be
here with you I'm always intrigued to
know what books our guests will choose
but I've been especially Keen to learn
and share with our audience your 10 best
spiritual books when I saw it I saw the
list I said well that is one list the
only one so far where all 10 books are
favorites of
mine that's good to hear strength yeah
so how did you how did you find the
process of having to pick your St was
kind of interesting that there were so
many books to choose from and in the
process of choosing the ones that spoke
most deeply to me at any particular time
in my life um I I found myself kind of
drawn to kind of more intellectually
oriented books because I'm an academic
um and at the end I was quite struck by
how much I don't know you know the books
help me so much but there's there's so
much that uh I've left untouched in the
spiritual
field wow well I beg to differ and our
audience will find out later why I say
that I mean when you say there's so much
you need to know I would have thought
you know you know what we all want to
know and that's
enough it's it's not so much what I need
to know it's just stuff that I don't
know uh I feel content with what I have
learned through my journey yeah but but
the yeah well they don't know B I mean
you know we can go on forever
there so your first book understandably
is Stanis laugh grth Realms of the human
unconscious Realms um observations from
LSD research published in
1975 you're a great supporter of his
work aren't you I am uh I think Stan's
work is so critically important to the
emerging Paradigm in transpersonal
Psychology and I Came Upon This Book
right after I was out of graduate school
just beginning my teaching career just
beginning to look around for where to
take my research next and I Came Upon
This first book by Stan that was
published just two years before and as
soon as I read it it activated something
in me and I knew I needed to get
involved in this process even though
psychedelics were illegal at the time
this was almost 10 years 8 years after
they had been made illegal I
nevertheless decided to begin uh what
became a 20year journey working with uh
LSD in a therapeutic protocol uh that
Stan lays out working with high do
sessions uh not as a clinician I wasn't
a psychologist I wasn't primarily
oriented towards healing I'm a
philosopher of religion by trade I was
interested in the cosmological
significance of these substances how
they would give us they had the
potential to show us new insights into
the deep structure of the universe and
it that book just really sort of lit the
fuse for me W how old were you then I
was 30 years old yeah wow and that
started your 20 year Journey yeah
between 30 and 50 that that's really the
book that started it all for me and of
course I read all of Stan's books as
they came through and I always felt that
my books are largely first and foremost
in dialogue with Stan's
work so book number two Ian Stevenson 20
cases suggestive of reincarnation
published in
1966 yeah I met uh this book at the same
time I met Stan's book uh and at the
time I was deeply convinced agnostic
with strong atheistic leanings uh and I
encountered this book by Stephenson
which uh I think presents overwhelming
evidence the first of many books of his
that prevent
present overwhelming evidence that
reincarnation is simply a fact of life
it's a natural fact of life which
required that I erase my entire
intellectual Blackboard because
reincarnation had never been taken
seriously by any of the courses that I
had taken in college or graduate school
I had to erase the Blackboard and start
from scratch which resulted eventually
about 10 years later in my publishing my
book on
reincarnation life cycles which was my
response to Ian Stevenson's pioneering
work so when you um I'm getting a bit of
feedback now when you went down that
path did you risk um you know the ey of
your colleagues I did actually I went on
sabatical my first sabatical and I had
not planned to write a book I had not
planned to write this book but I came
back with the book The manuscript of the
book and my colleagues were not Terribly
Happy with with it but it got published
and then it got translated into several
foreign languages and they began to pay
more attention to the subject matter so
it didn't affect your career it didn't I
was afraid that it might uh when I first
did it but this is a kind of a personal
karmic thing uh I've paid the penalty
for going against the grain in former
lives this life time it seems that it's
important for me to continue to go
against the grain and not end in not
receive any negative consequences and
only receiving positive
consequences but number three journey of
souls case studies of Life between lives
by Michael Newton published in
1994 yeah Michael Newton's work is so
beautiful and so important uh started as
a past life therapist then accident gave
an in an ambiguous instruction to a
client through which he learned learn
that we could regress people not only to
their former lives but we could regress
people to the time in between their
death and their subsequent rebirth and
he began to give us a an a um
uh not an autobiographical people
individual experiences of what happened
to them in their time between their
incarnations uh and his series of books
just were fantastic about this they had
not been published when I published my
book at first uh but they certainly do
complement it very beautifully I mean he
really was a Pioneer there wasn't he I
mean so many people I speak to trained
with Michael Newton yeah really was and
uh and his description of the BAU
existence concurs with my experience in
psychedelics uh completely with the
provision that I think he's he's seeing
more the lower half of the BAU not the
upper edges of the BAU but
yeah book number four is lessons from
the light what we can learn from the
near-death experience by Kenneth ring
and that one was published in
1998 yeah I again which one of these
books by each of these authors like we
focus on Kenneth ring has always been a
colleague and friend he wrote the
forward to life cycles uh his work on
near-death episodes was so critically
important animportant I taught a course
for many years at the university called
transpersonal studies in which we always
included near-death episode research and
I always used Ken Ring's books because
they were so accessible to the students
and so well researched and this book is
kind of Ken's last book on near-death
episode research it's an overview it's a
compendium it contains beautiful
passages all sorts of empirical analysis
but my favorite chapter in the book
comes towards the end where he's
describing the deepest uh near-death
episodes that he has recorded and they
are just magnificent personally as a
psychedelic oriented person I feel
deepest compatibility or a deepest
resonance with people who have had deep
near-death
episodes yeah so continuing the theme
Robert mon far Journeys his bestselling
classic published in
1985 yeah Robert Monro has been a real
companion to me on the journey through
his Works um this book came out when I
was on my first sabatical and I was
writing life cycles and I this book came
out and I immediately uh made a
reservation to go and do a week's
training program at the Monroe Institute
because I was so impressed by his work
um uh and then I went back one more time
right after he passed to go back to the
Monroe Institute for a week's training
to say goodbye Monroe I think is an
under studied figure in uh the
Consciousness
Community you know maybe it's because
he's on the east coast and doesn't
penetrate West Coast circles so much but
the model of the universe that he
presents that emerged over Decades of
his going out of his body every every
night every time you went to sleep is
just a stunning model idiosyncratic very
candid he he Monroe just says it calls
it like he sees it uh but it's a very
compatible model with Eastern uh
particularly Buddhist cosmology the
structure of the BAU uh the long the
large model uh I think is just a
fantastic uh Excursion and I've read it
multiple times through the years did you
have many Journeys when you were there
uh you know getting out of my body is
never an aptitude that I seem to have
developed I when I was there I had
definitely non-ordinary States Of
Consciousness expansive diffuse and con
States Of Consciousness where I was able
to make contact for example with people
who had died and were in the BAU but
they weren't accompanied by the
sensation of being out of my body
and this is true for all my psychedelic
work I never had the sensation of
leaving my body rather my Consciousness
expanded exponentially beyond the limits
of my body but not as kind of a separate
Consciousness individualized
Consciousness traveling
out I always wanted to go there I never
got there but I did um attend a weekend
session by somebody who had trained to
do it and didn't really work for me I
was so disappointed yeah
yeah book number six um by a man whose
work I love Dwayne Elin choosing Earth
Humanity's great transition to a mature
planetary civilization published um I
think that was 2020 but there's been a
new edition published yes he's updated
it put it in a new edition uh Dwayne
Elton is a dear friend great colleague J
he's one of my heroes one of he's been
trying to raise the alarm about
Humanity's Peril and what we're doing to
the planet and the limitations of our
understanding of the universe the
consequences of buying into a
materialist Paradigm instead of a living
Universe Paradigm one of his books the
living Universe uh from his first book
on voluntary Simplicity where he points
us where we need to be going reducing
our impact uh on the planet living a
simpler life W with more focus on what
we want to achieve with our life uh not
a life of doing less but a life of doing
more with less but this book choosing
Earth is a distillation of decades and
Decades of his thinking on the earth he
lays out a very carefully scientifically
informed proposal for what the next 50
years are going to look like DEC deade
by decade and then he follows this with
a a series of of recommendations for how
we can consciously and intelligently
engage this crisis and work to ensure a
better outcome it's just a it's a
beautiful book and his wife Colleen has
produced a film that is the companion to
the book so you and they're giving away
the book and giving away the film for
free is Dwayne says it's too important
we are right now things are too
important to try to make
money out of this pil do you know um
where people can go to find um the movie
and what's it called uh it's
called oh my goodness I'm having to
senen your moment here you can go to
Dwayne elen's website Dwayne elan.com
and his books are listed there and the
movie is there his wife's name is
Colleen ladw
Elgen I'll check it out yeah number
seven another um author whose work I
admire tremendously rert sheldrake a new
science of Life the hypothesis of
morphic resonance published in
1981 again a person who's written such
an extraordinary series of
books uh when I was trying to understand
as I say in my nose here when I was
trying to
understand why my psychedelic
purification he healing experiences had
expanded so exponentially to include
hundreds of thousands of human beings
the whole breath of the human species
and later when I was trying to
understand some of the Dynamics that
were being that were showing up in my
classroom that seemed this permeability
between my mind and my students mind
rert sheldrake's work was really helpful
to me and very important because he he
helped me understand that uh
our individual minds of of every being
is always also simultaneously Network
into a species mind so that as the
species learns the individual learns as
the individual learns the species learns
and a complex feedback Dynamic and this
was extraordinarily helpful when I it
helped me make the transition of
thinking about what was happening in my
sessions in terms of a personal model of
transformation into a collective model
of transformation and this became the
primary theme of my second book Dark
Knight early Dawn where I'm really
talking about the collective the the
dark night of our Collective Soul the
the transformation of our Collective
Soul and that has uh Rupert's
fingerprints all over it he took a lot
of flack didn't he I mean he really has
um you know had to fight the good fight
there and yet he's said to me that some
of the people who publicly deny his work
privately not yeah um too often in
Academia we have our public reputations
and our private convictions that don't
match our public positions yeah sad
isn't it yeah people don't feel that
they can be authentic and say what they
think yeah yeah and rer has been a just
a real hero in challenging uh the status
quo in scientific thought and just
pushing and pushing and pushing the
issues on the table that he believes in
yeah yeah so book number eight Richard
tares Cosmos and psyche intimations of a
new world view published in
1996 yeah Rick tarnis is another
colleague and dear friend uh an
extraordinary astrologer after
establishing his professional reputation
as an historian of intellectual thought
with his book Passion of the western
mind he then came out with this book
Cosmos and psyche in which he makes the
case that astrology not only illumines
the lives of individuals and he
demonstrates this very powerfully in the
book with known historical figures but
that astrology can be used to illumin
historical epics and it's so it's that
is the larger thesis which is so so
particularly provocative is his analysis
of history in terms of The rhythms of
the of the
archetypal astrological pulses of our
solar
system and showing a correlation between
the quality of the archetypal energies
that are being brought into Focus from
an archetype from an astrological lens
to looking at what's actually happening
at an historical level and showing the
correlations and I think it's an
extraordinarily important
uh and very valuable book also a real
tour to force you have to strap in when
you read one of Rick's books yeah yeah
I'm sure um I was looking at looking it
up earlier and I I think it was contents
list one of one of the things on there
that um caught my eye because it really
relates so much to your work and what's
in uh your book the transformation of
the cosmos the birth of the modern self
and the dawn of a new universe which is
pretty much where we are now but the
birth of the modern self I mean you talk
about the future human in your book um
what is what is the modern
self I think the modern self is the
birth that was given is the self sense
that was given birth to in the Age of
Enlightenment and it's the rational self
it's that gives birth to science the
scientific self
uh and I think what we're seeing is now
that the modern self is Thoroughly and
deeply establish the modern self is
someone who like Martin Luther can pound
his 96 thesis on the door of the
cathedral and basically say to this
multi hundredy old religious tradition
of the Roman Catholicism you're wrong
and you're wrong on this this and this
that self Consolidated within ourselves
so so that we can become critical turn a
critical lens on our history and our
culture and our context that self now
thoroughly established in history is
yielding to a postmodern self I think
and that's the future human that so many
of us are feeling intuiting and
experiencing uh in our contemplative
practices the postmodern self doesn't
negate the modern self but it reconnects
the modern self to the underlying deeper
fabric of Consciousness that runs
through all things not only through all
human beings but through all of life so
the modern self is being
recontextualized within the larger
fabric uh of existence and that is I
think the future human and the way I
understand that the technical parts of
that is in terms of the birth of the
diamond
Soul well we will talk more about that
after the break so book number nine SRI
orindo or the adventure of Consciousness
by sat Prem published in
1968 Shri arendo is an one of my heroes
he's just such a a brilliant man uh
Oxford educated uh and Hindu uh Saint
and Guru uh transition from being a
political activist being a spiritual
activist and uh he more or less
channeled all his books I mean
apparently all of his books were written
within six years he just channeled them
but they're very dense there you know
you really have to sit down with a cup
of coffee if you're going to read arindo
because he's so rich srem is a has
written a biography which basically
extracts the core insights that that
orindo presented in his writing but it
does it in a way which makes them more
accessible to the average reader like me
and I just I really appreciate srum
because he gives me a backdoor way into
oral bendle's thought and he it makes it
easier for me when I want to tangle
tackle the primary
text we had a guest on um a few months
ago who recommended I don't know if it
was this book but one of his and was
talking about how he and the mother I
believe it was um during the war they
would meditate and they would basically
send thoughts yeah um you know to Hitler
good thoughts um and they would see and
and they send thoughts to Churchill as
well and they basically sent one
particular thought to Churchill about
how he would mobilize you know the
British Spirit um you know to back him
completely and in fact what um he then
said in his next speech was almost word
for word w had
transmitted yeah yeah they just they
live in the truth of the open expans of
mind and that our individual thoughts
and Minds when Focus can travel into the
ocean of Consciousness and reach your
intended
destination yes yeah it made me you know
I've got to put him on my reading
list um the last book is the Flight of
the guda teachings of the Zin tradition
of Tibetan Buddhism by Keith dman
published in
1994 yeah well uh vadana Buddhism has
been a large influence on me and the the
question the challenge I had was which
of the many books that have moved me so
deeply in Buddhism uh could I put here
uh one that I considered almost put so I
just want to mention is uh the book
graceful exits which is a story of how
great beings enlightened beings die it's
a collection by oh I'm blanking on her
name of just the the death experiences
of enlightened beings uh but I chose in
the end one of my favorite tantric texts
the flat of the Garuda which
basically um was a bit controversial
when it was first published because many
traditional vadana practitioners did not
believe that he should have made public
such an esoteric text as this personally
I love it uh when I read tantric texts
like this I'm always bringing to it all
of my background in psychedelic
experience and when I read this text and
his commentary I just feel uh illumined
I feel so at home with it and I learn so
much from it that helps me process my
own psychedelic experiences uh Zen is
considered the fastest path the direct
path uh in vadana Buddhism it's a form
of Buddhist practice which more or less
kind of starts at the end instead of
kind of developing stage by stage stage
by stage up the mountain it kind of um
draws upon the Insight that where we end
up at the end of our spiritual practice
our end of our journey in Enlightenment
is in a condition which always existed
from the very beginning it's not
something which is brought into being
but it is on always there never changes
never ceases to exist never begins to
exist once you know that then you can
build your spiritual practice around the
fact of this pre-existing condition the
direct path and that's what this book is
coming out
of of those 10 books do you have a
favorite
oh I have so many I guess I'm I've lived
my life around the first two uh
Stevenson and Stan gr just because I
believe that reincarnation is an
absolutely essential understanding to
life and psychedelics have been the way
for me to personally explore the Deep
structure of the universe so I guess I'd
have to say those
but all of them are favorites of mine
they're all on my mustre list well some
of these people you know of those that
you don't know who would you most like
to meet
of those I don't
know well I would love to have met uh
Michael um uh Newton Newton yeah he's
now passed on so I'll be looking him up
when I die that's for sure uh just
because he's he contributed so much um
to my life yeah I bet you're not the
only one who be looking him up yes you
know Mar monrell says we can go anywhere
and find any anyone that we want when we
die all we have to do is know their know
their ID you know and uh so we can we
can check up on people that'll keep us
busy until we come back again I guess
yeah yeah yeah well that's your 10 best
list but it's by no means um the whole
of this show we're going to take a brief
break now and when we get back um put
your listening ears on you're listening
to a nobs spiritual Book Club interview
and sharing the 10 best books that had
the biggest influence on his life
Journey today is award-winning teacher
International speaker and author of the
seminal book The Mind LSD and the mind
of the universe diamonds from Heaven
we'll be back with more from Christopher
bash after the break stay
tuned home Times
TV Maya Angel once said that there is no
greater Agony than bearing an untold
story inside you I'm Sandy sbear and
when I'm not hosting omts media's
flagship radio show what is going on and
the nobs spiritual book club I help
people share their Untold Stories books
are my life my joy and my passion and
there is no greater reward than helping
aspiring writers get their books out of
their heads and into the hands of those
who waiting to read them if you feel
that you have a book in you but don't
know where to begin visit sbe.com click
on the work with me tab and find out how
my experience helping others tell their
stories might be just what you've been
looking for that's sbe.com s GBE
er.com imagine becoming a Super
influencer reinvent yourself invest in
your brand and then man EST your success
with a robust spheric approach own times
media and broadcasting offers a unique
and multifaceted way to become the
spiritual and conscious influencer you
deserve to be by putting your message
across our powerful platform with its
proven record of integrity and
Excellence through our produced shows
own times offers the opportunity to
become a social media TV personality a
radio show host an own Times magazine
columnist and a syndicated podcaster all
in one shot by live streaming your show
on Times TV and broadcasting it across
the extensive times radio and TV
networks you become more than a host you
become an ambassador and a force for
positive change home times open yourself
to the
possibilities There are 16 million
children struggling with hunger in
America that's one in five daughters
Sons neighbors and classmates mates who
don't know where their next meal is
coming from yet billions of pounds of
good food go to waste every year it's
time we do something about it feeding
America is a nationwide network of food
banks that helps provide meals to
millions of kids and Families in Need
visit feedingamerica.org to help them
feed even more together we can solve
hunger together we're feeding
America welcome back Christopher bash in
you embarked on a life-changing Journey
you said to explore your mind and the
mind of the universe as deeply and as
systematically as possible with the help
of LSD and over the next 20 years you
experienced 73 high do sessions
following Stang graph's
protocols um those Journeys which were
intensely gruelling and also equally
Blissful took you beyond the Beyond
beond took you to a place I would love
to go into a unified field of
Consciousness that underlies all
physical
existence there's so many questions so
many questions we won't have time for
all of them but why don't you tell us
what is the most important thing that
you think we need to know that you
learned on those
Journeys oh that's a hard question first
thing it pops in my mind is don't do
what I did you
know I I wouldn't do it the same way if
I did it over again but getting I would
be much gentler on myself um and that's
partly one of the things I learned was I
thought the purpose of this work was TR
to get to an end state that there was an
end state that would change my life
transform my life and what I learned
along the way and I was 17 years into
this journey at this point is that it's
an infinite
progression it's an infinite Universe
you you you you'll never get to the end
of it and so the whole project of
pushing as hard as I did with the
thought that I could get to the end of
it was just it was a mistaken uh concept
that I brought to
it you know uh what happens in a
psychedelic state is an amplification of
what's taking place in life in ordinary
processes so in order to understand what
happens in a psychedelic State you have
to know what's life is what's happening
in ordinary life and here I think we
have to come understand reincarnation we
have to understand that this is the
Rhythm of Life that we are a cosmic
being that we are a being that that
lives in time frames of hundreds of
thousands millions of years that this
particular Incarnation is only one of
many incarnations on this planet in
order to understand
and what life is about we have to look
not in terms of the one shortterm 100y
old lifespan we have to think in terms
of the Soul's lifespan which is vast uh
so that's that's the first thing is an
underscoring and rein enforcing of
reincarnation uh
also just the encounter with the living
intelligence which is I call it the the
mind of the universe because
our concepts of the Divine and God have
so many cultural limitations built into
them through history I don't want to
affirm those though I do sometimes speak
of the Divine less often but I'll talk
about God but the Consciousness which
one can encounter which one can dissolve
into the intelligence the genius I mean
just to experience briefly the
intelligence of of the mind that's
generating the UN universe and the
compassion and love and wisdom and you
know when you just look at life it looks
hard I mean it it is hard and it looks
like it could have been created by a a a
desperate because it is so seemingly
cruel but in order to understand the
genius of it and the wisdom of it and
the compassion of it you have to be able
to step back and look very deep it's
like stepping back off of the planet to
understand what's happening on the
planet and in that context we experience
you can experience the universe as This
Magnificent Garden that has been created
specifically for our transformation our
share of it our transformation and we
have unlimited amount of time to
continue to learn and grow in this
garden and it's a it's not an easy
Garden it's a hard place to live and
grow but it all offers us infinite
potential to develop the essential being
that we are and our essential being is
the Divine being our light of the Divine
we come from the Divine we are a spark
of the Divine Light and yet we're small
and kind of immature in the early stages
but we develop it and develop it and
develop it until eventually we can
become a being that has complete control
over their incarnation complete control
over the health of their body complete
control over the wealth of their mind
and creativity and we're growing and
growing and growing to in this direction
toward that direction and I guess one of
the other major takeaways is an
understanding of where we are in history
where our humanity is and
here so many Visionary experiences that
humanity is coming to a turning point
humanity is coming to a bifurcation
point a radical
deconstruction followed by a
reconstruction at a higher
organizational
level I think we are entering after
hundreds of thousands years of re
reincarnation where we have been
gestating the future human lifetime by
Lifetime by LifeTime gestating the
future human's form we are now have
entered the period of Labor and the day
of Labor is a very intense very
dangerous time very uh painful
time but when it's over the mother gives
birth to a new child and I think
humanity is in the process of giving
birth to a new child to the latest
iteration of its own uh fundamental form
I think we're we're witnessing in this
century and the next a shift in
the in the collective psyche a shift in
the fundamental architecture of the
collective unconscious so that all
future human beings who are born after
we make this transition will be living
in the context of a different
fundamentally structured psyche um this
is what I call the birth of the diamond
soul I think that after all these years
of incarnating we are reaching a period
in history where these lives are coming
together in inside us and as they come
together we first have to purify and
heal all their broken and hurt pieces
but as we do that they move into deeper
and deeper either gradually or
suddenly there is an ignition that takes
place and the soul is born and that is
the soul is the intelligence that holds
all of our experiences through all of
our incarnations and that I think is the
emerging future human in history history
the soul is being born inside human
history so how can I take can choose
which of those concepts are the most
important yeah I know well you you said
in the book that there are many many
layers to heaven and to the death
experience and that there is no hell but
there is confrontation and
accountability is that what many people
you know um regard as the Life review
yeah Karma
yeah tell us a little bit more about
that you know our understandings of the
god and our understandings of Life have
been so primitive historically I mean we
we're we only began to make contact
experiential contact with the
core essential nature of our being the
divine nature of our being about five or
6,000 years ago as a species and we're
just getting
started and so many of our concepts of
God and Punishment and reward and and
Heaven hell I think are just they're
just completely inadequate to really
understand the true scale and scope of
of the intention of
creation uh when we
die
when we die in the Life review We
encounter not only a detailed
remembering of everything we've ever
done in this lifetime but we also
experience how it impacted how it
touched the lives of those around us
both directly and indirectly touches
their lives and to the extent that we
have made bad choices then that comes
back to us in the experience of hell and
to the extent that we've made good
choices that comes back back to us in
the experience of heaven but in the end
the goal of this whole system is not to
punish us or reward us in some cheap way
but to educate us to teach us so that we
can learn so we learn from our mistakes
and we learn from the things we've done
well and we keep on growing we keep on
moving
through the idea that infinite
intelligence and infinite compassion
could produce something like the Eternal
damnation that help Visions is just
ridiculous it
just it's done so much damage I think to
human beings through history and it's
just wrong
yeah you know it's the experiences
you've had and the the concept of the
infinite is a very hard concept you know
to think that you could go on journeying
and journeying and journeying and and
reincarnating and
reincarnating you know the mind has to
get to a point where it says enough you
know I don't want to do this anymore
it's it's endless
yeah how do you feel about that I think
when we die uh we go home I mean we
return to Spirit and we return to our
soul the larger in Consciousness and we
re we are brought back into peace we're
brought back into wholeness uh and we're
brought back home now the trick is there
are many many levels of home uh and so
you can experience Homecoming in the
spiritual world at an introductory level
an intermediate level and a very
advanced level there are many levels of
Joy uh so I think there is a sense in
which we get to stop and pause and rest
and refresh ourselves after every
incarnation ation now there are
sometimes some people die under such
traumatic circumstances that can get
thrown off in different ways but for the
most part most people return home
without any
difficulties when we are there we are
restored we are reconnected with the
Divine and it's in that
context where we make the choice of
first whether to Incarnate again and
where to reincarnate again and ask what
to reincarnate again so what sounds and
so I think it's natural as we go through
life is e if we live our life well we're
tired at the end we don't the idea of
living multiple times is like that's
exhausting we're already tired but from
the Soul's perspective it's from the
period from the perspective have having
been refreshed and rejuvenated that we
voluntarily choose another course of
instruction to deepen ourselves as a
human being and to help other human
beings because eventually it becomes
clear we're not in this alone we're all
in this together and it's the most
natural thing in the world to want to
help other human beings in their own
evolutionary
Journey you know um when you say that
there are so many different levels um
you know that makes a lot of sense to me
so many people write about the afterlife
have messages from the afterlife hear
about you know how the loved ones are
living in the afterlife or existing and
they're also
contradictory um but if there are many
levels you know then that really does
explain a lot but the other thing I want
to talk about is you talked earlier
about um transformation you know we are
on a journey of transformation and we
are these Sparks and it makes me think
then that we must be very young Sparks
if we need to keep on being refined and
transformed I mean do older Sparks not
come
back good question uh good
question and again to even begin to
address that question we have to push
back the walls of our assumptions we
have to really begin to think deeper and
longer and
larger
[Music]
uh the spiritual Traditions that believe
in reincarnation say um reincarnation is
obligatory up to a certain point in our
developmental process so we may drag our
feet we may take time but sooner or
later we have to come back uh to The
Reincarnation process but there comes a
time when you no longer have to now the
early Eastern Traditions said that's the
that's the critical moment when you can
leave and everybody wants to leave and
that's what the religions are all about
Muka Escape getting to the pure land
getting to Heaven I don't think that's
really what it's all about I think but
it is a significant turning point
because once we no longer have to
participate in The Reincarnation cycle
once it's purely an it's purely optional
then we can choose to participate freely
uh and more strategically
to support not necessarily our own
individual development maybe but not
necessarily but to be able to support
the development of other human beings
you might think of them as our
grandchildren our great-grandchildren in
the end from a deep spiritual
perspective they're all our children
they're all our grandchildren all of
humanity is now there are some beings I
think who have reached that point and
they've gone on to explore other
dimensions of
existence uh the physical universe is
only one dimension of a
multi-dimensional cosmos in spiritual
reality so as vast as a physical
universe is it seems to be only
one Universe out of a multi-universe
system so in order to sort of ask are
there no are there no old Souls here or
where do old Sparks of light go that
just takes us really deep into the vast
expanse of things you know when the
Buddha was asked this question he didn't
he refused to answer it he about where
does an enlightened being go he said um
that however he answered it it would
confuse the listener and it was better
to just work on your own
transformation until you can have the
experience of Awakening yourself
and then you'll know for your own Truth
where we're going when we die and what's
available to us when we die because if
you say the awakened one does not exist
as they die uh then that's a leads to a
mistake if you say that the awakened one
does exist when they die that also leads
to a mistake because the conditions are
so different than that either or
recognizes you um talked about this
incredible intelligent Consciousness
this I'll call it a Divine being because
I don't know how else to describe it but
of course calling it a being minimizes
it it's it's infinite
um is this something that we all can
experience oh yes absolutely because its
nature is our nature and so when we
experience erience the deepest aspect of
our own being we experience its being we
experience its nature it's impossible to
step out of this being this being the
body of this being is the body of the
universe all the vast expanse of
spiritual reality is the consciousness
of the universe the non-physical aspect
of this of this being and again like you
I hesitate to call it a being uh because
that gives it kind of a boundary quality
and there are no boundaries yeah uh but
yeah this is not only can we experience
it but it is our destiny to experience
it and I think when we die we return to
the
remembrance of this
nature and that's why we want to
Incarnate again in order to deepen our
experience of our essential nature it's
kind of like when we die our cup is
filled to the brim but you can have a
half a cup a 3/4 of a cup full cup or
two cups you know and we want a bigger
and bigger cup so we can experience more
and more of the Divine
Bliss you you said in the book um how
painful it was it became painful to
leave the presence of that being and
that's ultimately one of the reasons why
you stopped having the sessions have you
found other ways to experience it that
aren so
painful the full intensity of communion
with of existence no I have not found
other ways of experiencing it in its
full
intensity uh I have committed myself to
grabbing physical existence my physical
existence and not letting it go and
learning to love the Manifest body of
the Divine in that I see around around
me in every person and in the stars at
night uh I am comfortable in this world
and I love this world and I do my
spiritual practice and you know but in
terms of getting access to those same
dimensions of uh Diamond Luminosity no
I've had to let go of that for the time
being that said I know there are beings
who do you know I know there are great
Spiritual Beings truly uh the you know
the Maha sitas the great beings who are
able to live in conscious communion with
those subtle Plains of existence I don't
happen to be one of those beings yet so
still hope but I I think if I practice
every day for the rest of my life in
this Incarnation I still not would not
be able to realize in my particular case
in traditional contemplative practice
the levels of reality that I access that
I was accessing after after 20 years of
work in this particular form of of
practice with
psychedelics but knowing what you know
knowing what it feels like knowing you
know where you've been and what you've
experienced it must make life a little
bit hard you know knowing that that is
always there it makes it hard and it
makes it easier it makes it easier
because now I know I know it in my heart
and in my bones that we are always
surrounded and and suffused with this
Divine intelligence and love and one can
draw on it continuously so that in that
sense it makes it easier because the the
greatest burden I think of physical
existence is not knowing and we're we
get Driven Crazy by not knowing and that
burden has been lifted from me but it
does make it hard in the sense that to
once you and this is nothing unique to
psychedelic Journey people who have deep
ndes near-death experiences the same
thing they they have to it's a challenge
to come back into time and space and be
content with living here and that aspect
it is harder because you know that it's
there and you know that it's only your
own silliness which is keeping you from
enjoying it fully right here right now
it's only my own
imperfections which are keeping me out
of that state right here right
now um this 200 100 200 years um of
transformation that we are going to go
through yeah it's it's a wonderful thing
and it gives a lot of people a lot of
Hope and goodness knows you know we're
all aware of what's happening in the
world today and how challenging that is
to live with and many people are very
afraid but when we're in a human form if
we haven't had the experiences that
you've had it's also very hard to
think I'm not going to say it in my life
lifetime I've got to wait a couple of
hundred years you know that's it just
sounds too
much you know
me the timetable was not given to me uh
and the details of the transformation
were not given to me in my Visionary
experiences what I was given was the
experience of the human species
undergoing the pain of a deep and
profound Global collapse uh and this and
the beauty and this first and the
certainty that we would make it through
and a lot of people are beginning to
think that we're not going to make it
through it's an Extinction event my
Visionary experience is that we do make
it through and we are profoundly changed
in this
process you know I it's kind of like you
know when a woman starts labor in the
morning when she's starting labor she
might think oh I don't want to do this
today let's do something else but
there's no choice we're in it and I
think that's what's going to happen to
us now we may not want to be in it but
we're in it and the key to to navigating
it well is to do it well each of us has
a small share in this Collective
transformation and the actions of
individuals have disproportionately LGE
large outcomes in a time of intense and
accelerated change in nonlinear systems
so that each one of us can have a
positive impact
on a good outcome of this crisis that
we're going through and I don't know how
long it's going to take us but this is
the work of the hour this is what we are
all here working toward yeah and it's
not as though we're not going to
experience that transformation because
if we keep coming back you know we we're
definitely going to be a part of it yeah
and I think the joy when we begin to
experience in between our lifetimes and
on earth eventually when we experience
this new human being that is coming
forward in history and we aren't you
know nature or the force behind nature
is giving birth to this being when we
experience this being
it's just like experience a newborn babe
it will all be worth it all the pain and
suffering will be worth it this is of an
extraordinary event in human
history Chris B I'm afraid we're out of
time thank you for adding your 10 best
list of spiritual books to the nobs
spiritual book club's library of
recommendations and thank you for taking
that Journey for all of us thank you
Sandy thank you for the work you're
doing thank you for the tremendous
source of information that you bring
into the world you're just doing such
good work and uh thank you for the
attention you've you've paid my work
thank you Chris so Christopher B's 10
best lists can be found at the no BS
spiritual book club and if if you go to
Sand's bookworms you can download an
excert from LSD and the mind of the
universe diamonds from Heaven which is
published by Inner Traditions bear and
Company for more information about
Chris's articles events and other books
visit his website at Chris bash.com this
show is also available as a free
downloadable podcast at times.com
Spotify iTunes Amazon Audible and all of
the major podcast platforms so if you'd
rather listen um than view you know
where to go for it that's it for this
week I'm Sandy sbear I'll be back at the
same time next week with another 10 best
interview for the nobs spiritual book
club till then it's goodbye from me and
thank you deeply to Chris Le thank you
Sandy
[Music]